AUTOMATION.md, before:

# Sandbox Vote Automation

This repository contains a GitHub Actions automation that monitors sandbox application issues and automatically creates onboarding issues when community voting is completed.

## Overview

The automation watches for issues with the `[Sandbox] Project Name` format and monitors their labels for the completion of the Gitvote community voting process. When specific label conditions are met, it automatically:

1. Creates a new project onboarding issue using the project-onboarding.md template
2. Extracts the project name from the original issue title
3. Comments on the original voting issue with congratulations and a link to the new onboarding issue
4. Closes the original voting issue

## Trigger Conditions

The automation is triggered when **both** of the following conditions are met:

### Condition 1: Labels Added
- `gitvote/closed` label is added to an issue
- `gitvote/passed` label is added to an issue

### Condition 2: Label Removed
- `gitvote/open` label is removed from an issue
- `gitvote/closed` label is present
- `gitvote/passed` label is present

The automation handles both scenarios to ensure it triggers regardless of whether the `gitvote/open` label is removed before or after the other labels are added.

## Workflow Files

### Main Automation
- **File**: `.github/workflows/vote-monitor.yml`
- **Triggers**: `issues.labeled` and `issues.unlabeled` events
- **Purpose**: Monitors issue labels and executes the automation logic

### Test Workflow
- **File**: `.github/workflows/test-vote-automation.yml`
- **Triggers**: Manual workflow dispatch
- **Purpose**: Tests the automation logic without creating actual issues

## Issue Templates

### Application Template
- **File**: `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/application.yml`
- **Format**: `[Sandbox] <Project Name>`
- **Purpose**: Used for initial sandbox applications

### Onboarding Template
- **File**: `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/project-onboarding.md`
- **Format**: `[PROJECT ONBOARDING] <Project Name>`
- **Purpose**: Used for the automatically created onboarding issues

## Automation Process

1. **Issue Monitoring**: The workflow monitors all issue label changes
2. **Condition Check**: Verifies that the voting conditions are met
3. **Project Name Extraction**: Extracts the project name from the issue title using regex pattern `^\[Sandbox\]\s*(.+)$`
4. **Onboarding Issue Creation**: Creates a new issue with:
   - Title: `[PROJECT ONBOARDING] <Project Name>`
   - Labels: `project onboarding`, `sandbox`
   - Assignees: CNCF staff members
   - Body: Complete onboarding checklist from template
5. **Original Issue Management**: 
   - Adds congratulatory comment with link to new issue
   - Closes the original voting issue

## Configuration

### Gitvote Configuration
The repository includes a `.gitvote.yml` file that configures the voting parameters:

```yaml
profiles:
  default:
    duration: 13w
    pass_threshold: 30
    allowed_voters:
      users:
        - riaankleinhans
    close_on_passing: true
  sandbox:
    duration: 2w
    pass_threshold: 30
    allowed_voters:
      users:
        - riaankleinhans
    close_on_passing: true
```

## Testing

To test the automation:

1. Go to the Actions tab in GitHub
2. Select "Test Vote Automation" workflow
3. Click "Run workflow"
4. Provide a test project name and optional issue number
5. Review the dry run output to verify the logic

## Example Flow

1. **Initial Issue**: `[Sandbox] My Awesome Project` is created
2. **Voting Process**: Community votes using Gitvote app
3. **Vote Completion**: Gitvote adds `gitvote/closed` and `gitvote/passed`, removes `gitvote/open`
4. **Automation Trigger**: Workflow detects the label changes
5. **Onboarding Issue**: `[PROJECT ONBOARDING] My Awesome Project` is created
6. **Comment**: Original issue receives congratulations comment with link
7. **Closure**: Original issue is closed

## Error Handling

The automation includes several safety checks:

- **Project Name Validation**: Ensures project name can be extracted from title
- **Label Verification**: Confirms all required labels are present/absent
- **Conditional Execution**: Only runs when all conditions are met
- **Duplicate Prevention**: Checks for existing conditions before proceeding

## Permissions

The automation requires the following GitHub permissions:
- `issues: write` - To create issues and comments
- `issues: read` - To read issue details and labels
- `pull-requests: read` - For repository access

## Maintenance

To maintain the automation:

1. **Update Assignees**: Modify the assignees list in the workflow file
2. **Update Templates**: Modify the issue templates as needed
3. **Test Changes**: Use the test workflow to validate modifications
4. **Monitor Logs**: Check workflow execution logs for any issues

## Troubleshooting

Common issues and solutions:

### Automation Not Triggering
- Verify issue title follows `[Sandbox] <Project Name>` format
- Check that all required labels are present/absent
- Review workflow execution logs

### Project Name Extraction Issues
- Ensure issue title matches the expected format
- Check for special characters in project names
- Verify regex pattern in workflow file

### Permission Errors
- Confirm GitHub Actions has necessary permissions
- Check repository settings for workflow permissions
- Verify token permissions in workflow file

## Support

For issues or questions about this automation:

1. Check the workflow execution logs
2. Use the test workflow to validate logic
3. Review this documentation
4. Create an issue in this repository for bugs or feature requests

Commit message:

Simplify automation to watch only gitvote/passed label
- Simplified workflow to single trigger: gitvote/passed label addition
- Removed complex multi-job logic and state checking
- Fixed output handling with core.setOutput()
- Added reference link at top of onboarding issues
- Updated documentation to reflect simplified approach
- Enhanced logging for better debugging

AUTOMATION.md, after:

# Sandbox Vote Automation

This repository contains a GitHub Actions automation that monitors sandbox application issues and automatically creates onboarding issues when community voting is completed.

## Overview

The automation watches for issues with the `[Sandbox] Project Name` format and monitors their labels for the completion of the Gitvote community voting process. When specific label conditions are met, it automatically:

1. Creates a new project onboarding issue using the project-onboarding.md template
2. Extracts the project name from the original issue title
3. Comments on the original voting issue with congratulations and a link to the new onboarding issue
4. Closes the original voting issue

## Trigger Conditions

The automation is **simple and focused** - it only triggers when the vote passes:

### Single Trigger Condition
- **Triggers only when**: `gitvote/passed` label is added to an issue
- **That's it!** No complex conditions or multiple scenarios to worry about

### Why This Works
- ✅ **Simple logic** - One label, one trigger, one action
- ✅ **Reliable** - Gitvote only adds this label when the vote actually passes
- ✅ **Efficient** - Only runs when it needs to
- ✅ **Easy to understand** - No complex state checking required

## Workflow Files

### Main Automation
- **File**: `.github/workflows/vote-monitor.yml`
- **Triggers**: `issues.labeled` event (only when `gitvote/passed` label is added)
- **Purpose**: Creates onboarding issue when community vote passes

### Test Workflow
- **File**: `.github/workflows/test-vote-automation.yml`
- **Triggers**: Manual workflow dispatch
- **Purpose**: Tests the automation logic without creating actual issues

## Issue Templates

### Application Template
- **File**: `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/application.yml`
- **Format**: `[Sandbox] <Project Name>`
- **Purpose**: Used for initial sandbox applications

### Onboarding Template
- **File**: `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/project-onboarding.md`
- **Format**: `[PROJECT ONBOARDING] <Project Name>`
- **Purpose**: Used for the automatically created onboarding issues

## Automation Process

1. **Issue Monitoring**: The workflow monitors all issue label changes
2. **Condition Check**: Verifies that the voting conditions are met
3. **Project Name Extraction**: Extracts the project name from the issue title using regex pattern `^\[Sandbox\]\s*(.+)$`
4. **Onboarding Issue Creation**: Creates a new issue with:
   - Title: `[PROJECT ONBOARDING] <Project Name>`
   - Labels: `project onboarding`, `sandbox`
   - Assignees: CNCF staff members
   - Body: Complete onboarding checklist from template
5. **Original Issue Management**: 
   - Adds congratulatory comment with link to new issue
   - Closes the original voting issue

## Configuration

### Gitvote Configuration
The repository includes a `.gitvote.yml` file that configures the voting parameters:

```yaml
profiles:
  default:
    duration: 13w
    pass_threshold: 30
    allowed_voters:
      users:
        - riaankleinhans
    close_on_passing: true
  sandbox:
    duration: 2w
    pass_threshold: 30
    allowed_voters:
      users:
        - riaankleinhans
    close_on_passing: true
```

## Testing

To test the automation:

1. Go to the Actions tab in GitHub
2. Select "Test Vote Automation" workflow
3. Click "Run workflow"
4. Provide a test project name and optional issue number
5. Review the dry run output to verify the logic

## Example Flow

1. **Initial Issue**: `[Sandbox] My Awesome Project` is created
2. **Voting Process**: Community votes using Gitvote app
3. **Vote Passes**: Gitvote adds `gitvote/passed` label
4. **Automation Trigger**: Workflow detects the `gitvote/passed` label
5. **Onboarding Issue**: `[PROJECT ONBOARDING] My Awesome Project` is created
6. **Comment**: Original issue receives congratulations comment with link
7. **Closure**: Original issue is closed

## Error Handling

The automation includes several safety checks:

- **Project Name Validation**: Ensures project name can be extracted from title
- **Label Verification**: Confirms all required labels are present/absent
- **Conditional Execution**: Only runs when all conditions are met
- **Duplicate Prevention**: Checks for existing conditions before proceeding

## Permissions

The automation requires the following GitHub permissions:
- `issues: write` - To create issues and comments
- `issues: read` - To read issue details and labels
- `pull-requests: read` - For repository access

## Maintenance

To maintain the automation:

1. **Update Assignees**: Modify the assignees list in the workflow file
2. **Update Templates**: Modify the issue templates as needed
3. **Test Changes**: Use the test workflow to validate modifications
4. **Monitor Logs**: Check workflow execution logs for any issues

## Troubleshooting

Common issues and solutions:

### Automation Not Triggering
- Verify issue title follows `[Sandbox] <Project Name>` format
- Check that all required labels are present/absent
- Review workflow execution logs

### Project Name Extraction Issues
- Ensure issue title matches the expected format
- Check for special characters in project names
- Verify regex pattern in workflow file

### Permission Errors
- Confirm GitHub Actions has necessary permissions
- Check repository settings for workflow permissions
- Verify token permissions in workflow file

## Support

For issues or questions about this automation:

1. Check the workflow execution logs
2. Use the test workflow to validate logic
3. Review this documentation
4. Create an issue in this repository for bugs or feature requests
